Detective Recapped here. Today, I'm going to
explain a Drama-War film called: "The Beguiled".
This depicts the pitfalls of the different
kinds of desire through a lone soldier
finding himself in a school for girls.
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Three years into the Civil War in Virginia,
1864, Union Soldier Corporal John McBurney
finds himself hiding in the woods, unable
to move because of his injured leg. When Amy
comes across him while picking up mushrooms,
the little girl doesn't hesitate to offer him
help. Amy tells McBurney that she can take him
to her school on the other side of the woods.
With McBurney asking if there are any men there,
Amy explains that there are only two teachers and
four other students at The Miss Martha Farnsworth
Seminary for Young Ladies. While Amy isn't sure
if McBurney will be welcomed there as a Yankee,
she assures him that it's a better place than the
forest. Clearly, Amy’s been taught well by her
teachers with how she helps a stranger without
question out of the goodness of her heart. Like
an innocent little girl, Amy doesn't even think
about the danger that the soldier could pose.
All she wants to do is help a man in need, and
in times of war, help is hard to come by. With no
other choice, McBurney accepts Amy's invitation,
and the little girl helps him as he walks. Along
the way, McBurney learns that Amy's teacher only
kept their school open because they don't have
anywhere else to go. When Amy asks him if he
ran away, McBurney only tells her that he got
separated from his group after they got hit.
Upon reaching the Farnsworth Seminary, the
exhausted soldier finally passes out. Amy calls
Miss Martha and the rest for help, and they’re all
ambivalent towards the soldier’s presence there.
Still, they take him to the porch, where they
argue whether they should help him or not.
Miss Martha orders Amy to get their blue rag and
tie it to the gate, which will let the patrol
know they've captured a live Yankee. However, Miss
Edwina thinks they should tend to his wound first,
so Miss Martha says they'll wait until McBurney's
injury is healed before they decide what to
do with him. They then take him inside, where
Miss Martha removes all the metal shards from
his wound before sewing it. After tending to
the wounded soldier's needs, Miss Martha and
Miss Edwina leave the room and find their five
students waiting for them outside. Amy informs
them of the soldier's name, but Miss Martha says
his name won't matter since he'll be leaving soon.
As Miss Martha cleans McBurney's body, Miss Edwina
and the students proceed with their sewing class.
The bells ring, signifying the approaching patrol.
Miss Martha talks to the captain but doesn't tell
him about McBurney. Instead, she asks him
for an extra cartridge for her revolver,
saying she'll feel safer if she knows
that she can use it. Despite Miss Martha’s
initial decision to turn McBurney over to the
patrol, her fright and reluctance affected her
judgement. Her frequent glancing towards
the school is a small tell of her nerves,
but she keeps a calm façade and gives nothing
away. Keeping McBurney there may be a problem,
but she’s still curious and concerned, seeing
as she’s kept her mouth shut about him.
Back inside the school, Miss Martha loads
her gun before hiding it again. Meanwhile,
Miss Edwina scolds Amy for secretly talking to
McBurney. The girls are having breakfast the
next day, and Alicia asks Amy how McBurney
is, to which Amy answers that he's fine.
On the other hand, Jane is annoyed that she can't
practice in the music room because of McBurney,
but Miss Edwina tells her that the soldier
will stay there for as long as he needs to.
The teachers and the students carry on with their
regular activities, and when it's time for Miss
Martha to clean McBurney's wound, she makes
it clear to the man that she doesn't like his
presence in her school. She asks him if he's not
afraid that she'll turn him over to the soldiers,
and McBurney says he isn't. McBurney thinks there
are far worse things that could happen to him,
and he believes he would've been
dead already if it wasn't for her.
In spite of McBurney’s expressions of
gratitude, Miss Martha remains cold and
reminds him that he's not their guest but
rather a most unwelcome visitor. McBurney
understands where Miss Martha is coming from,
but he still tries to be friendly towards her.
When Alicia comes and asks Miss Martha if
she needs any help, the teacher instructs
her to inform the other students that the music
room is off-limits. Before Miss Martha leaves,
McBurney politely asks if she could give him
some soap and a razor. The tension between
McBurney and Miss Martha rises when the teacher
expresses how discomforted she is by his presence.
Alicia, however, is very interested in the
corporal and finds ways to be close to him.
When McBurney is finally left alone, he chuckles,
showing that he's enjoying the attention he gets.
One day, Marie visits McBurney in the
music room to bring him a prayer book,
and she made sure to wear a set of pearl
earrings. When Marie leaves, Miss Edwina
sees her on her way out and asks why she's wearing
her earrings. The little girl tries to be smart,
saying everyone has dressed up that morning,
but Miss Edwina wants her jewelry back.
Marie then promises to return it, and when Miss
Edwina tells the girl to get back to her work,
McBurney calls her. Despite her hesitance, Miss
Edwina enters the music room, bringing the razor
and soap that McBurney asked for. While the
teachers and students are anxious because of
McBurney, they’re still thrilled to have a man
in their school. It's not every day that the
ladies get to talk to a good-looking soldier,
so each one of them has their own strategy on
how they'll be noticed by the corporal. Soon
after McBurney's arrival, the ladies have
started to change the way they dress, even wearing
conspicuous pieces of jewelry just to stand out.
When Miss Edwina notices the soldier's dirty
nails, McBurney admits that he thought of
burying himself in the middle of chaos in
battle. However, he failed, so he ran away
instead. Miss Edwina doesn’t find that brave,
and while McBurney agrees, he believes that what
he did was smart and gave them a chance to meet
each other. As she cleans his wound, Miss Edwina
shares that her father is from Richmond, and she
left Savannah when she was young. Fascinated,
McBurney keeps asking Miss Edwina questions about
her life, wondering how someone like her ended
up in that school. McBurney thinks she's waiting
for a sweetheart to return from the war, but Miss
Edwina tells him she doesn't have anyone in the
military. Being bold, McBurney tells her that he's
never come across such beauty as hers. He then
takes her hand and asks what her greatest wish is,
and Miss Edwina admits that she wishes someone
would take her away from that place. A little
embarrassed, the teacher leaves and lingers
outside the room, trying to gather herself.
Miss Edwina is on her guard the whole time she's
talking to McBurney, barely meeting the soldier's
eyes and careful not to stir her feelings. On
the other hand, McBurney boldly displays his
attraction towards her, making the teacher uneasy.
As Miss Edwina remains by the door, it is apparent
that she's trying so hard to restrain herself
from doing anything she might regret later.
During their evening prayer, Alicia excuses
herself and asks Miss Martha if she could use
the bath closet. However, instead of going there,
she heads to the music room and finds McBurney
sleeping. Without hesitation, Alicia kisses
McBurney on the lips and wakes him up before
quickly going back to join the others in their
prayer. As Alicia's curiosity gets the best of
her, it becomes clear that she’ll do anything to
get McBurney's attention. Unwilling to leave any
room for competition, she audaciously makes the
first move on the corporal before the other girls
can. Luckily for Alicia, she manages to pique the
corporal's interest. The next day, while having
dinner, the teachers and students discuss what
they might learn while McBurney stays with them.
Alicia says the sight of McBurney will remind them
that there's something else in the world beyond
their lessons, but Miss Martha disagrees with her,
saying that learning lessons at a young age can
help them attain a calm and happy life. When it's
Jane's turn to talk, she tells them that McBurney
will constantly remind them that the war is still
going on and they should keep praying. The other
girls share their thoughts, too, and when Miss
Edwina says she finds McBurney to be a sensitive
person, Miss Martha asks her to share more of
her findings with them. Miss Martha then informs
them that they will join the corporal after dinner
for a prayer, and everyone agrees with her. Here,
it is apparent that Alicia and Miss Edwina both
have their eyes set on McBurney. From the way they
talk about him, it is undeniable that they like
the man. Although the other students are curious
about McBurney, too, they don't speak of him with
such adoration the way Alicia and Miss Edwina do.
After dinner, the teachers and the students
head to the music room to share a prayer with
the soldier. Miss Martha then asks Jane
to play the piano for them, and before
the girls start singing, McBurney praises her
for playing beautifully. As the students sing,
the two teachers can't help but feel a
bit distracted by McBurney's presence.
All of a sudden, they hear a loud pounding on
the door, and Miss Martha instructs Miss Edwina
to stay with the girls while she checks who their
visitor is. Before leaving, Miss Martha also adds
that she'll rap on the door three times to let
them know if it's the enemy soldiers at their
gates, and Miss Edwina says they'll go to the
woods and meet her there if that's the case.
Amy is concerned about McBurney, but Miss Martha
says he'll have to stay behind since he's not well
yet. Miss Martha leaves for a while, and when she
returns, she assures everyone that the soldiers
are two of their own, and they have offered them
their assistance. The soldiers are eating some
food in the kitchen, and Miss Martha tells the
ladies that she hasn’t informed the soldiers
about McBurney yet. Once again, Miss Martha had
her chance to tell the soldiers about McBurney,
but she didn’t. Instead, she lets them inside
her school, acting as if she's not harboring a
deserter. Whether Miss Martha is letting McBurney
stay with them out of her kindness or guilt,
Miss Edwina and the girls sure are
relieved that McBurney isn't leaving yet.
However, Miss Martha intends to ask the
soldiers to take McBurney with them,
and Amy is quick to protest, saying McBurney
can’t ride without hurting his leg. Miss Martha
says she'll tell the soldiers that McBurney is
still injured and just ask them to come back,
but that will take a long time. After arguing
over what they should do with their visitor,
Miss Martha makes the final decision of letting
McBurney stay with them only until he's recovered.
Defeated, the girls agree with Miss Martha's
plan, and they all go back to their rooms.
Before leaving McBurney alone, Miss Martha
asks him if he'd like to join her for a
brandy when she returns, and McBurney says
he'd like that very much. Being the one to
find McBurney in the woods, Amy expresses
the most genuine concern about the corporal.
She is worried about what will happen to him,
and it's not because she likes him romantically,
but because she considers him to be
her friend. When all the girls retire
for the night, McBurney eventually shows his
disappointment about Miss Martha's decision.
When the two soldiers finally leave, the girls
quietly discuss how long they think McBurney
will stay with them. Meanwhile, Miss Martha and
McBurney talk about the girls' life at school,
with McBurney expressing his admiration for
her dedication to them. Miss Martha admits that
although she gets tired sometimes, she believes
that she needs to give the girls what they need
to survive in the war. Out of the blue, McBurney
asks Miss Martha if she had anyone before the war,
and the teacher says she did. McBurney doesn't
push Miss Martha to talk about that person,
but instead, he just apologizes to her. He then
tells her that he was a coward to leave, but Miss
Martha isn't judging him. McBurney shares that he
was fresh off the boat from Dublin when he took
$300 to take another man's place, but Miss Martha
understands him and says everyone has done things
out of their character. Miss Martha says she'll
see to it that he'll find his way home, and even
though he clearly doesn't want to leave, McBurney
keeps quiet about it. During their conversation,
McBurney tries to win Miss Martha over by
repeatedly complimenting her about her work,
but he fails. He then tries to get her sympathy
by saying he only joined the war so he could
have some money, but that doesn't work, too.
Judging by the look on his face, McBurney is
fighting the urge to tell Miss Martha that he
has no intention of fighting in the war again.
In the morning, Amy provides a cane for McBurney,
and he is grateful for it. As he practices walking
around, Amy calls Miss Martha to show what she's
done for the corporal, and Miss Martha tells
McBurney not to force himself. When McBurney loses
his balance, Miss Martha catches him just in time.
McBurney then asks Amy to help him go outside, and
on their way out, Alicia reminds the young girl
that it's her turn in the kitchen garden. When Amy
says she's helping the corporal, Alicia offers to
relieve her, but Miss Martha tells them to stop
arguing. Once outside, McBurney notices that the
roses need pruning and volunteers to do it, but
Miss Martha won't let him. Amy then asks if he's
had gardening experience, and when the corporal
says he's done a bit of it, Miss Martha resigns
and asks him to assist them when he recuperates.
Thankful, McBurney says he'll be happy to do it,
and Amy and Miss Martha go back inside. McBurney's
injury doesn't stop him from attaining his goal
of staying there. His insistence on helping Miss
Martha with her garden is just the front he puts
to hide his cowardice to leave, and the teacher
sees right through him. However, Miss Martha still
lets him do what he wants, and the corporal must
be relieved that he finally has a reason to stay.
McBurney starts working in the garden as soon
as he feels better. Late in the afternoon,
Miss Martha thanks McBurney for his hard work in
the garden. She then asks to see his wounded leg,
and after checking it, she tells
McBurney that he's almost healed.
McBurney asks if she wants him to go,
and even though she says she doesn't,
Miss Martha thinks it would be better if he
leaves by the end of the week. Surprised,
McBurney asks Miss Martha where he should go, but
the teacher says that's entirely his business.
He then expresses his desire to just stay there
and tend to their garden, but the teacher can’t be
swayed. Just when McBurney thought he's safe, his
plan is suddenly jeopardized. This time, McBurney
fails to maintain his composure, revealing his
temperamental side. Once again, he tries to reason
with the teacher to let him stay, only proving
how scared he is to go back to the outside world.
Inside the school, Amy informs Alicia and Emily
that Miss Martha has asked McBurney to leave,
making the girls feel sad and worried. They then
think of ways to stop McBurney's departure from
happening, like suggesting to Miss Martha
that the corporal join them for dinner.
When Miss Edwina visits McBurney in
the music room, the corporal boldly
tells her that he misses being near her. Miss
Edwina tells him she doesn't want him to go,
and McBurney holds her hand, confessing that
he loves her. Confused, Miss Edwina asks him
not to say that unless he means it, but the
corporal insists he's telling the truth. He’s
felt this way from the moment they spoke, but he
was afraid that Miss Edwina might push him away.
He confesses to being a tired man who’s tired
of the war, and he just wishes to see the West.
Miss Edwina says that her father can help him
once he goes to Richmond, and McBurney asks her
to come with him. Unable to control herself, Miss
Edwina gives in to the soldier's charms and kisses
him. But they are interrupted by Alicia, who asks
McBurney to join them for supper. In a desperate
move, McBurney used Miss Edwina's affection for
him just so he could stay there. The teacher,
unfortunately, fell for the corporal's
sweet words easily. Clearly,
she’s been lonely for so long that she would
instantly believe a stranger’s words. Miss
Edwina is so infatuated with McBurney that
she fails to see him for who he really is.
Everyone dresses up nicely for dinner, and
the girls continue to vie for the corporal's
attention. After eating, McBurney asks Miss
Edwina if he could see her later in the evening,
but before she could answer, Miss Martha
invites him to join her in having some digestif.
As they talk, McBurney once again expresses
his desire to stay with them as their gardener,
but Miss Martha doesn't say anything. When it's
finally time for bed, Miss Martha takes McBurney
to his room, and the two almost kissed if it isn’t
for the girls' noise. Miss Martha then takes her
leave, and once everyone is asleep, Miss Edwina
puts on a nice nightgown and makes herself look
presentable as she waits for McBurney. However,
McBurney doesn't show up. When Miss Edwina decides
to look for him, she finds the corporal in
Alicia's bed. Hurt, Miss Edwina backs away
from McBurney as he tries to explain himself,
only to push him down the stairs by accident.
Alerted by the commotion, everyone gets out
of their rooms, and Miss Martha realizes that
McBurney has broken his already-injured leg.
With Miss Martha asking to know what happened,
Alicia lies about McBurney attacking her and Miss
Edwina fighting him off. Believing Alicia's story,
Miss Martha asks the girls to help her
carry the soldier to the table. Once there,
Miss Martha orders the students to return to
their rooms before informing Miss Edwina that
they need to cut McBurney's leg. Although Miss
Edwina vehemently disagrees with Miss Martha,
she obeys her and leaves the room to fetch the
things they need for the amputation. This isn’t
the first time Alicia shows that she's willing
to go to great lengths to get what she wants,
especially when she feels threatened. When she saw
McBurney focusing his attention on Miss Edwina,
she made sure that the corporal will come to her
bed instead of the teacher's. Sadly for the three,
their strong desire for one another is so
rotten that it led to a horrible accident.
The next day, McBurney wakes up and realizes
that his leg has been amputated. His screams
bring Miss Edwina to his room, and as she tries to
talk to him, McBurney accuses her and Miss Martha
of punishing him for not going to their rooms
instead. Miss Edwina expresses how sorry she is,
and even though Miss Martha insists that the
amputation saved his life, the corporal won't
hear her. Enraged, McBurney yells at them to leave
and bring him something for the pain. As the women
leave, they make sure to lock McBurney inside the
room. McBurney continues to wail the whole day,
and while the girls worry about what they should
do, Miss Martha thinks it would be unwise if
they let him go. He could tell the other men of
their garden and cow and lead them to the school.
Alicia then visits McBurney when he finally calms
down, but the man isn't in the mood to talk to
her. He then demands Alicia to bring him the
key to his room, and when she refuses, he grabs
her by the hair and eventually makes her do his
bidding. Finally, with McBurney unravelling, he’s
starting to show his true colors. He isn’t the
charming man everyone thought he was. Of course,
losing a leg is a tragedy for most people,
but McBurney is so self-absorbed that he
believes his amputation to be a conspiracy
against him by bitter and jealous women.
Still, Alicia keeps visiting the corporal in his
room, proving she's unbothered by his outbursts.
Later on, as Jane goes down the stairs, McBurney
asks her to come into his room. Although she's a
little scared, Jane listens to McBurney as he begs
her to put a good word for him with Miss Martha
and the others. McBurney wants Jane to ask Miss
Martha to let him stay, and when Jane says she
will, she hurriedly leaves and locks the door.
Later that day, McBurney manages to escape from
his room and get a gun. With the girls frightened,
Miss Martha tells McBurney that they will assist
him as he leaves, but the corporal makes it
clear that he'll only go when he wants to.
He keeps claiming that Miss Edwina pushed him
off the stairs, and Miss Martha amputated his leg
because he didn't visit them in their rooms that
night. Amy tries to calm him down, but the soldier
has changed, and he even throws Amy's pet turtle
away. He then starts drinking and breaking stuff,
and when he leaves, Miss Martha instructs Amy
to tie the blue rag to the gate. Unfortunately,
McBurney catches Amy and chases her into the
woods. McBurney must've felt betrayed, for Amy
was the first person among the ladies to show him
kindness. He probably doesn't expect the little
girl to turn against him because she's always been
the one to stand up for him against Miss Martha.
Even though he genuinely likes Amy, McBurney
is forced to stop her from doing her task.
The girl screams, and Miss Martha goes to check
on her. To her horror, Miss Martha finds Amy
with McBurney in the barn. With the corporal
threatening her with a gun, Miss Martha asks him
to join them inside the school. There, McBurney
orders everyone to sit down before promising them
he meant them no harm. He’s pained and frustrated
over his amputated leg, and he asserts that he’d
rather be dead than be a man without a leg. He
asks Miss Martha why she didn't just kill him when
she got the chance, and when she doesn't answer,
he tells them how much he regrets trusting them.
He then threatens to shoot anyone who
disobeys him, and as he's about to leave,
McBurney shoots down the chandelier just to prove
a point. Miss Edwina tries to go after McBurney,
but when Miss Martha stops her, she pushes her
to the couch and goes to McBurney's room. Miss
Edwina blocks the door with a table before making
a move on McBurney. The man pins her to the floor,
and he makes love to her. Meanwhile, Miss
Martha and the girls continue to think of
how they'll get rid of the corporal, and Marie
suggests they serve him with poisoned mushrooms.
It’s incredible to see the effects a single man
could have on these girls’ lives. After all that
McBurney’s done and shown them, Miss Edwina’s
affection for him doesn’t change. She even
disregards Miss Martha's wish that she stay away
from the soldier, showing that she's done obeying
Miss Martha's orders. And now, the students and
Miss Martha were forced to come up with their
plan, proving that a dangerous situation can force
a good person's hand to do something unimaginable.
During dinner, McBurney gets himself
a serving of the poisoned mushrooms.
Miss Edwina’s also about to eat
them, but Amy manages to stop her.
As soon as McBurney eats the mushrooms,
he starts having difficulty breathing.
It isn’t long before he collapses on the floor
and dies. Miss Edwina looks at Miss Martha and
the girls, bewildered over what happened, but
they don't seem to be bothered at all. Later on,
Amy ties the blue rag to the gate then helps the
other girls sew a shroud for McBurney's body. Miss
Edwina mourns the death of the corporal, but she
doesn't say a word about it. When they're finally
done, the teachers and the girls place McBurney's
body outside their gate for the patrol to see.
In the end, The Beguiled shows us that God-fearing
women aren't always weak and innocent. They can
be fearless and manipulative, too, especially
when they have their backs against the wall. On
the other hand, not all men are brave. They, too,
can be cowards, who will do anything to survive.
Still, war is a force of its own that can
distort people into unrecognizable iterations
of themselves. It fuels simple desires
and twists them into something terrifying.
From McBurney desiring to live in peace
away from the war to the girls’ desiring to
experience something beyond the limbo of their
school, everyone just wanted something more.
But at the end of it all, McBurney still died
young, and the girls remained in their school.